the real estate crisis rages on in
today's video I'm going to explain
what's going on with commercial real
estate with residential real estate
people are walking away from massive
deposits and I'm going to show you where
people have moved from and where they
are going I got an interesting map that
will be very informative to a lot of you
I want you to stay tuned through all of
this let's begin right here you could
see preconstruction condo buyers forced
to offload units for as much as
$150,000 less than they paid if buyers
continue to sell condos below their
contract value in assignment sales the
selloff could lower valuations for
entire buildings so it's not just one
place we're seeing this across the board
this is happening a lot of different
places um but of course this is when
what happens when you start building a
building at a certain time people are
paying before they even dig into the
ground people are putting offers they're
trying to get the places and then you
have a little bit of a correction okay
the craziness is kind of wearing off and
so anything where the money was going in
at that crazy time those are those Peaks
those unusual moments those
anomalies and so that happened in in the
case of Canada it happened in 2017 April
2017 I believe as as well as 2021 when
everything was getting crazy and so now
what we're seeing is those two peaks
those two moments anybody doing business
around that time is really still today
hurting because you bought during the
Euphoria and that's a big problem if
you're not willing to hold for a very
very long time it's hard to do that when
the borrowing costs are so high now
let's look a little bit further here I
want to tell you where people have been
moving I've I've been telling you this
and we've been seeing articles but now I
found this really good map so you got to
check it out there's actually uh one
here I'll put the link in the
description okay the map shows which
countries have gained and lost
population since 2020 so here it is you
can see the three-year population shift
by county and the green is positive and
that purplish color is the negative so
it's you know um the darker it is of
course the more intense and what is very
clear to me very clear is what you would
expect that well you could see look look
at that California to me it looks like
people leaving California and they're
going to basically the states closest to
it you see that they're just moving on
they say Okay shorter short distance I'm
over here at the same time in basically
what is the center of the United States
we get a lot of people leaving maybe
it's the job circumstance maybe you know
for other reasons they're taken off uh a
lot of Texas saw major growth Florida
Saw major growth and then you go across
North like going from Florida North
beyond that uh all along the coast and
clearly there has been a lot of growth
there too so it's just interesting to
see what has happened over the last 3
years and actually visually see the
movements in this way I hope you
appreciate this if you did hit that
Thumbs Up Button all right doing so
helps to support the channel if you want
to see in a list view I got you as well
right here County population just
comparing that Los Angeles County took a
hit took a big hit here and you could
see the population changes from 2020
into 2023 as well as a three-year change
pretty extreme in some circumstances
there's no question about it I mean look
at towards the bottom of the list uh
Colin County Texas I know it's a might
be a little bit blurry but the links are
in the description
11% positive I mean just shows us that
certain imagine that surge of population
I mean that's a lot to absorb in just a
few years I'm sure the people of Colin
County are not too happy sometimes it
could be because it might restore the
cities and the towns but not always okay
so this is what's going on inside of
real estate if you say all of real
estate is bad or all of real estate is
fantastic you're really really seeing a
blanket statement which does not apply
everywhere as Florida sellers slash the
prices of their properties in an attempt
to attract reluctant buyers local
Realtors say this might be the right
time to purchase a home in the Sunshine
State and so what they're saying is hey
you know things are looking a little bit
iffy right now and this is the time to
jump in because things are going to go
higher and higher not all property goes
higher linearly it struggles sometimes
it goes down sometimes you got to be
careful with this where you're buying
the jobs need to be moving in that is
essential uh and also don't think that
you're just going to flip I'll show you
why you think you're going to flip
houses be careful okay I'll show you
this when you encounter a crisis when
Real Estate becomes too expensive rents
become too expensive you push people
further and further out into the edges
no showers No Sleep van life isn't as
cool as Instagram makes it seem with
home prices so high living on Wheels
seems a reasonable alternative but many
find it isn't of course people can do
this and some people enjoy it there's no
question about it but for some people
they're just you know they're pushed to
the edge and they say hey I got to do
whatever I can but that's a big big
concern and it shows us how devalued the
currency has been when the average job
cannot afford the average home and the
average job can't even afford the
average rent in most cases because if
you go to what is a much more affordable
area there's a very good chance that the
salaries in that local area just don't
add up right they just don't add up to
that and so you've got a problem there
clearly seen it everywhere Family Dollar
and Dollar Tree will close 1,000 stores
so it shows us not all just because it's
like selling cheap stuff and people buy
the cheap stuff now more than ever
before uh doesn't necessarily mean that
that's going to make a successful
business okay just just be careful on
that uh blanket statements often you
know it's not not a good thing but I'm
also showing you the the commercial real
estate side because I think it's
important to look look at this um and
understand like where are the biggest
risks generally you would say hey dollar
stores very good during this time they
carry a lot more stuff than they ever
did before variety stores in a sense uh
but you got to look at it wholeheartedly
and understand doesn't mean that they're
going to be
profitable office vacancy rate near
20% to set fresh record according to
Moody and so you'll see that around
different areas obviously is worse than
others San Francisco being a prime
candidate for the worst offender title
but just look around and you will see it
for yourself um it's not over yet next
year this could get uh worse as well and
we see not only vacancies but
delinquencies being a problem
too calling CR commercial real estate
manageable quote manageable is just wish
thinking and certainly this is a problem
we've seen this so-called debt the debt
is manageable I've heard that before but
of course it's not and that is a fraud
that is a joke in a sense because people
have been told that the debt is
manageable so of course commercial real
estate is manageable because it's the
debt that's important but it's not
because as I've said 100 times before
you cannot convert a lot of these
properties we have to wait for a period
of time for people to go in and move
into those offices new businesses need
to be created companies need to expand
their operations we have to find
potential alternative uses for this you
could have data centers and things built
in some of them but they're generally
not made in that way okay they don't
replace office towers and put a whole
bunch of data centers it's not like that
you got to figure out your cooling
circumstances there's a lot to it and of
course the electrical the plumbing if
you're going to try to do that in
residential it's a different world
leaked document Amazon expects to save
1.3 billion billion with a B by slashing
office vacancies and terminating leases
early and other moves they want to get
rid of real estate just like Salesforce
I believe it Salesforce and potentially
Microsoft as well want to get rid of
real estate a lot of companies do they
need to cut costs anywhere they can
they're also increasing their fees hey
hey thanks Amazon they're increasing
their fees but guess what happens those
fees get passed down to the customer
that's just the way it goes if you
increase your minimum wage what do we
learn about the fast food chains you
increase the wage in California to $20
we need a living wage right okay oh we
we used to have three people working in
the back oh now we got two soon it'll be
one and flippy the
robot one plus flippy the robot are
going to to replace those three
workers that were there before home flip
imp plummets across the US in 2023 as
profits slump again there you go you
could see this obviously very very
obvious as time has gone on we have seen
this to be a worse and worse proposition
to try and flip a home why it's
borrowing cost yes obviously that's the
case but construction costs repair costs
material costs have all gone up so these
guys they think they're making money but
uh you got to watch out for that be
careful on these flips you really got to
know what you're doing and understand
your costs I I see it all the time
people uh they really uh didn't think
that through okay investors own
23.7% of Ontario homes did you just hear
what I said a quarter of the homes in
Ontario are owned by investors now
that's not necessarily the big
multi-billion dollar companies this
could be the mom and pops but it still
shows us what's been going on nearly a
quarter of every home and I'm sure I'm
sure you go into the big cities those
numbers are higher right it's skewed to
be all uh across
Ontario this is a big concern because of
course the unaffordability of it all and
if they believe that there's going to be
you know higher vacancy if they can't
you know deal with the borrowing costs
then you could potentially have a
cascading event that occurs toppling the
entire thing I'm not saying that's going
to happen but the longer interest rates
remain high the more of a burden this
becomes you got to watch out for that of
course the debt can deal a crushing blow
and so we need to pay attention
commercial real estate let's summarize
here commercial real estate bad and
worse if you look at retail and you look
at office very bad we could have
fantastic industrial uh that could be
very good of course anything related to
U energy I think could be potentially
good um I also really like retirement
homes that sort of thing because of
course aging population I like anything
that goes along with the health care
sector as well so those are a few things
that's not all bad and like I said even
when we look around in residential real
estate let's say or commercial real
estate you got to understand there's
Pockets so keep that in mind as an
investor or just like you got to
understand what your exposure is what is
the exposure when I'm getting into a
particular investment you cannot just
look at PE ratios my God please okay so
that's what we got to do uh if you want
to know the ins and outs of all of this
I talk about this live for two hours
every single Friday on my finance Friday
live sessions I want you to join there
all you got to do is click that link in
the description the money gps.com so you
can find out more about it if you have
questions just let me know I'm always
available all right and as always I'll
see you tomorrow take care